Answer using the context from my paramount experience building a quantitative finance tool. Fill in details about using C++ technologies common in industry to meet requirements.

I was chatting with a guy in the office, he happens to be one of our oil traders. He was looking into ways to improve his work and make more money, one of them was optimization. Apparently, this was something very apparent since he was manually trying blends to see how much they'd make the company. I said oh, that's interesting. I wanna look into this too. He started sending me our financial/trading data + reqs from blend ops. I spent 6 weeks reading up different ways, came across nonlinear programming, and its applications. Found a case study for blend ops but it was done in matlab and oil wasn't being sold, just blended for further processing downstream. I found a few papers on using it (btw my project idea wasn't novel; other companies sold much better, more comprehensive ones that was able to be applied to more situations, mine literally only worked on this company's specific situation). I spent about 3 months developing a MVP in python, and then about 8 months building a more durable solution in C++. In Python, I tried different libs but there wasn't one that had the features I needed (that I referenced a couple papers for). However, there was one built in fortran that I found and used as reference.

I was paired with a trader who knew the ins and outs of the operations at our facilities. Prod team supported me with updates on blend ops requirements (they can be mech, chem, petro, etc.) My role was developing the software, implementing what I found through my research and the guidance of the trader.

Say we have contracts to sell to 5 different sales lines. Each one demands that the oil meets certain characteristics (density, sulphur content, mcr, etc). They also have different prices which change depending on what the oil’s characteristics are. The blend ops is literally mixing oil to get our desired product that has predetermined characteristics. My software, given the different oils we had and from third parties (characteristics, cost to purchase, volume), would determine the volume we would take from each source. Then it’d provide the volumes of each source that we’d blend so we can produce up to 5 separate products. These products then get pumped through their corresponding sales lines.